-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about using RDS database
as our underlying MySQL database
for the applications which need to be deployed
on elastic Kubernetes service.
And how we are going to use it,
we are going to look into.
So before going in
like means like before going
into implementing the RDS database for our applications,
let's see what we have implemented
in our previous sections, right?
So in our previous section we have used
the MySQL pod means like we used the MySQL
container to create a pod and it's equal and deployment.
And then we used the MySQL cluster API service
to expose it for our user management application so that
this user management rest API application has the MySQL
as a database inside the Kubernetes cluster itself.
And for persistent storage, what we used
we use the elastic block store
with storage classes, persistent volume claims
all these concepts we have applied.
So now for learning all this is good, but when thinking
in production grade deploying applications, this is no good.
Okay? So why it is not good, we are going to see here, okay.
So even we can even use StatefulSet concepts to
create a high availability related setups of MySQL.
But there is going to be a huge amount of manual work
which we need to do to implement all these things.
We should also be a MySQL side
expert
or MySQL admin to implement all these things.
Okay?
So drawbacks of EBS, CSI and also MySQL DB
as a pod inside a Kubernetes cluster, okay?
This is on a very high level, right?
So complex setup to achieve high availability.
So even stateful services provided and the example
whatever is provided is one MySQL master
and then multiple read replicas is the thing
Kubernetes documentation provides. Right?
So with that said, so if you want to implement
that also there are a lot of scripts
and then very basic level of information provided
in documentation and if you implement it and
how we are going to handle it
also becomes other issues for us.
Okay? So another important thing means like
from MySQL side setups are going to be
hard and then
if we are already a MySQL expert, maybe it'll be easy.
But as a AWS solution architect
or system admin or Devops admin
I really don't need to be a MySQL admin here, right?
So if someone is very good at MySQL
and then if they design and provide that
we can use those manifests, okay?
But as we need to go and then implement them
it is going to become so tough for us.
So now in addition to that MySQL,
there is one more other thing is EBS, right?
So from EBS perspective
Elastic Block Store is a availability zone level resource
which means the volumes
whatever you provide is zone restricted.
So it cannot be across that entire region.
So what happens is if your MySQL part has
been created in US East one year,
so then you'd need to map to its
EBS volume present in US East one year.
So here the problem comes when you want to
implement Master Master MySQL setup, okay?
And most of the times, okay, master and read replicas
will be available for few applications,
but at the same time, master and master also required.
And all these setups becomes complex for us
and then implementing it.
So we are creating a lot of, instead of creating a very
high available and then very resilient solution,
we are going to mess up and then create lot of issues there.
Okay. So considering all those things, even master
master layer setup, also whatever is provided as part
of straight full sets documentation is only a very minimal.
So it'll not have any automatic backup and recovery
scripts available or even auto upgrade to MySQL.
How we are going to do it.
So how we are going to change it and then do it
and what all implications we are going to get, right?
So all these things are not available as part
of whatever the MySQL thing which we are going to create.
And already we are a
user management or our application related things.
We need to worry.
That's the reason EK has provided a control plan where
we really don't need to worry about cumulative stuff.
Only, we need to worry about the workloads here.
At the same time, again, if you bring this MySQL
now you need to worry about MySQL also here.
But instead of that, if we start using the power
of cloud means like as we are on cloud,
we should be
good to
use the cloud level services.
At the same time running our workloads on Kubernetes will be
a good option.
So with that said, we can use the RDS database as our store.
So let's see what are the advantages of using it, right?
So now we remove the MySQL part here and then
we are going to use the Amazon RDS database.
So when we are using RDS database here, so how
we are going to connect to RDS database.
So that's the thing, right?
So in Kubernetes for services,
there is one concept called External Name Service.
So using external name service,
we are going to connect to the RDS database.
So now
and as usual we'll have the user management note
port service
and then we are also going to have
going to access it using work note public.
I call note port slash user management slash
health status APA
for once we deploy it when it is running.
So now what are the advantages when using Amazon RDS is
automatically it means like by default
you'll get the high availability.
Automatic backup and recovery scripts available
which are just to configurable directly
from the management console
and you can even create any number of read request, okay?
And metrics and then monitoring is available
out of the box and automatic upgrades.
So there will be minor and then major version upgrades.
So you can schedule them.
So if you minor upgrades need to be updated on so and so
date means likes every weekend on so and so night
at from 12 to 2:00 AM, it need to be applied.
Then automatically those will be applied.
So in addition to that
it is a multi support and we really don't need to worry.
So we only get a endpoint URL, DNS named URL.
And we just need to worry only about that DNS named URL.
So we really don't need to worry about anything.
So that DNS URL, whatever Amazon RDS provides
we are going to configure in this external name service
and then leverage that
benefit of RDS
for the workloads we are running on EKS cluster.
So now, so we have seen all these things in the line of
blog diagrams and then features and then all these things.
But we also need to look into
inside AWS how the architecture is going to
look like.
So that's another important thing which we need to know.
So if you go here,
so we are going to see AWS EKS network design
with EKS workloads running inside and also RDS database.
So how it is going to look like in a VPC.
Let's see that.
Now.
So if you go here in AWS cloud, we have a VPC.
So this VPC is automatically created
as part of creating the EKS cluster.
So we have ensured that based on our command
we said that our EKS cluster should be available
in US east one year and then one B availability zones.
And we also said that,
so it automatically creates the private subnets
and then public subnets.
So always our databases should be in private subnet.
So I have create means like we can create our RDS database
in our private subnet.
So in addition to that, we also will have the public subnets
and first we'll go ahead
and then create the EKS cluster control plan.
As part of that, all these things got created
which is nothing but VPC availability zones.
Inside this availability zones you have the public
and then private subnets.
So when this EKS control plan is created
it also creates the worker nodes, right?
So which is nothing
but the easy to instances in each public subnet.
So by default we created currently the cluster
whatever we have created is in public subnet.
The moment we go into our next sections
with load balances.
We will ensure that this respect to worker nodes
which is nothing, but these worker nodes are nothing
but part of it, node group concepting EKS.
And then those will be moved under private subnets
and only load balancers will be in the public subnets
which we are going to see in our upcoming lectures.
But for now, let's assume that.
So we have a VPC
which is created as part of creating the cluster
and then that cluster is part
of you assist one year and then one B zones.
And then it also created public
and private subnets leveraging the clusters.
Private subnets,
we have created the RDS database inside them.
And then now we'll start with the MySQL
external limb service.
So in our Kubernetes cluster
so we have created a MySQL, external limb service.
So which will connect to the RDS database
whatever is available in to available zoom zones.
Anywhere in our real lecture
we are going to create only a free tier one
which means only one database will be available.
But for depiction, I have showing here two RDS databases
which means like underlying, it'll be spanned
across how many availability zones we have created
that many replicas.
But now we are going to do
in our practical only one RDS database, but depiction
I'm showing how the availability is going to be there.
Okay, So now we are also going to deploy our user
management application here
which will have a replica set and the respective parts.
Okay. You means user management application here.
Okay
So inside a part you have the user management container.
Okay. So now what happens is like you'll also
create a user management node port service to
expose this deployment to access where users
where internet.
So this is the high level architecture
from AWS EKS perspective means
like EKS in combination with the RDS database, right?
So in our next lecture we'll go ahead
and then start creating the RDS database
and then prerequisite security groups
and all those things required for RDS database.
And deploy all these things and then test it.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.